imagine this you wake up one morning you
check your Shopify analytics and you see
the Holy Grail of Shopify analytics a
one to one add the cart to sessions
converted ratio that's right 100 add the
carts 100 reach to checkouts and 100
sessions converted absolute perfection
but unfortunately that will never happen
because we don't s the robots so we're
always going to have to deal with those
pesky digital window Shoppers that never
seem to want to actually convert but
thankfully in today's video I'm going to
show you the top five ways to improve
that c embedment ratio and get those
potential customers all the way through
to the
end what's going on everybody it's
Spencer here if you're new to the
channel I run a growth Focus agency by
the name of e media where we help
multiple six and seven figure Shopify
Brands scale their sales profitably now
if you've actually never checked your at
the cart to reach checkout to sessions
converted ratio that drop off rate is
actually one of the most important
metrics that we analyze in our custom
cro audits that we do for potential new
brands now the reason why we look at
those metrics is because it helps us
understand what's actually going on in
the funnel for some Brands we see they
have a really low add to card ratio
which means there's just not a lot of
interest happening there the majority of
people that are landing on the website
are just really not seeing the value to
actually add your product to cart to
begin with where in other cases we see
Skyhigh add to cart ratios and a lot of
interest and a lot of demand but very
very low conversion rates which means
there's some kind of issue with the
actually getting people to follow
through and purchase the item that
they're interested in now based on the
clients that we work with and all of the
audits that we've done on Shopify Brands
we have realize that a quote unquote
good add to cart to sessions converted
ratio is 3 to one for every three add to
carts you get one of those ad to carts
will actually convert however we have
seen a few Elite Brands typically those
that have a higher returning customer
rate that actually average a 2:1 ratio
which means for every two add to carts
that you get one of them will actually
convert and on the other side well we've
seen brands that have a 4:1 5:1 7:1 and
sometimes even 10:1 add to card to
session converted ratio and if you are
checking your Shopify analytics right
now and that is you you need to pull out
a notepad and pay close attention but no
matter where your ratio is whether
you're an elite 2:1 or you're a more
average 3:1 4:1 5:1 kind of brand these
top five tips that I'm about to share
with you will help increase your add to
card to conversion ratio at any level
now before jumping into the actual first
way to increase your add to cart to
conversion ratio I just want to make
sure it's very clear that you should be
offering as many payment options as
possible on your website I don't think
you need to add things like crypto but
if you do want to add some crypto feel
free but offering things like Apple pay
and PayPal and of course shopay or
afterpay or Kara or any kind of payment
installment offer as well is absolutely
Mission critical for you to see an
increase in add to C to conversion ratio
if you check your store and realize you
don't accept PayPal or don't have shop
pay installments on your website site
you're definitely losing out on a lot of
sales so first things first make sure
you actually check what types of
payments you accept make sure you
actually offer the most popular ones now
with that said the first thing that is
going to massively increase your ad to
cards conversion ratio is going to be
offering free shipping at this point
most people just expect free shipping
nowadays now before you say but if I
offer free shipping I'm going to get
killed on margins you know what kills
your margins having a really bad
conversion rate in full transparency we
have tested offering free shipping or
certain free shipping thresholds more
than anything else at our agency and 9.9
times out of 10 it unlocks massive ball
necks when it comes to us trying to
profitably acquire new customers and if
you're worried about your margins I'm
going to pop up a screenshot that one of
our clients recently asked Their
audience in regards to whether or not
they would have a higher percentage off
or a lower percentage off plus free
shipping and the vast majority of people
chose a lower percentage off plus free
shipping although they would actually
save more money if they just chose the
higher discount based on the client's
current shipping prices that's how
powerful free shipping can be again I'm
always the guy that's talking about
Amazon and how they do things so well
there is a reason why Jeffy B offers
free shipping because it works we've
even seen some clients just completely
remove shipping and bump their prices
higher and actually see an increase in
overall conversion rate even if you have
an offer that is more valuable than free
shipping if you're charging for shipping
I would highly highly recommend that you
test offering free shipping at bare
minimum to new customers and watch what
that can do to your conversion rate and
if you actually want to see the profit
that that can generate for your business
I would highly recommend testing out a
tool called
intelligence. it's an incredibly viable
software that actually lets you split
test certain prices in shipping with
your products so with that rant aside if
you're not offering free shipping and
you see that your ad toar car ratio is
Sky High and your conversion rate is not
so high just test giving free shipping
to customers and watch what that can do
to your overall conversion now the
second way to improve your ad to cart to
conversion ratio is by simply improving
the speed at which you ship products to
potential customers if you are taking
longer than 7 days to ship a product to
someone your conversion rate is going to
suffer now as a pro tip if you do not
have the actual dates of how long it
takes to ship to someone in your Shopify
checkout page make sure you add those
right away as we see so many Brands fail
to add that information in there and if
you're not communicating how long it
takes for someone to actually get their
products again you're losing out on a
ton of sales and if you're not sure how
to do that just simply go into your
Shopify shipping settings and change the
name of your shipping to include the
dates now as I was saying if your
shipping is taking longer than a week to
arrive to someone that can also be a
massive ball neck as people are
impatient and you already know what's
coming Jeffy B offers next day shipping
for a reason it's because people like to
get their stuff and they like to get it
fast negotiate with your 3pl partners
negotiate with shipping companies in
your area start chatting with them to
see what you can do to get better
shipping rates and to ship things f
faster and on a side note if you're
taking 3 to 4 days to even fulfill an
order let alone the shipping time that
can also massively impact your ad to
card to conversion ratio get packages
out as fast as you can and ship them to
the person as fast as you can and by
doing that you're going to improve the
overall customer experience and also
increase your add to card to conversion
ratio there are times where people are
just shopping for a certain accessory
for a night out or a certain outfit or a
pair of shoes for some kind of family
event and if they can't get it in time
for that event or for that outing or
just simply because they're very
impatient that will also lead to cart
abandonment so by improving your
shipping speed and communicating the
checkout process that will also improve
your add to cart to conversion ratio now
speaking of communication the third way
to improve your EMB addding cart ratio
is simply by communicating your shipping
up front I already mentioned in the
previous point that you need to have it
in your checkout so people can see how
long it's actually going to take to get
their products but it's even better if
you can actually communicate your
shipping and your policies on your
action pages and when I say action Pages
that's on your product pages or even
better inside of your C by communicating
up front that the product will arrive in
3 to 7 days or that it's free shipping
on all orders that can also drive your
ad toar ratio up further and actually
improve your conversion rate as a whole
because more people once they reach the
checkout are actually confident in going
through and purchasing it because
they're not thinking about additional
shipping cost as much as people do like
surprises we typically don't like
surpris that cost us more money so if
you don't communicate your shipping
policies up front because so many online
Shoppers just essentially expect free
shipping nowadays A lot of the times
they'll add your product to cart go to
checkout and think they're getting free
shipping but then they're surprised with
an extra five or 10 or $15 shipping
costs that they didn't account for and
as you can probably imagine they abandon
their car so always make sure you
communicate how long your shipping takes
and your actual shipping policies up
front so customers aren't getting
surprises on the back end and if you do
do what I mentioned the first point by
actually offering free shipping make
sure you call that out on your pages as
well now as a sneaky sneaky Pro tip for
making it this deep into the video if
anybody asked you didn't get this from
me but something that you can actually
do is State your shipping policies on
your action pages and say that you have
free shipping at a certain threshold of
$100 or $150 something that's a little
bit higher than your aage or rev but on
the back end have it set so there's free
shipping on every order by doing that
people actually think that they're
getting some kind of a deal or something
is broken on the back end because
they're not supposed to get free
shipping unless they're paying over $100
and their $75 order for some reason has
a free shipping option and a lot of
people will see that as some kind of a
glitch but in their favor so they'll
actually be more incentivized to check
out right away before the so-called
glitch gets fixed now again you did not
hear that from me but if you want to try
that it's a sneaky little test to run on
your website to see what it can do for
your conversion R so like I just said
just always make sure you communicate
your shipping very clearly and that it
follows all the way through to the
checkout and you should start to see
your add to card to conversion ratio
improved now the fourth way to improve
your add to card to conversion ratio is
simply by having more Trust on your
website reviews FAQs ugc videos or my
favorite Founders videos If users do not
trust your brand or they think that
you're not real your add to cart ratio
might be high but your conversion ratio
is going to be extremely low it's pretty
hard to give a business your credit card
information if you don't trust them and
on top of that if people don't trust
your website initially they also have an
incentive to abandon their card because
they're going to start trying to do some
research and find out more about you so
always always make sure you provide
loads of trust and loads of social proof
for potential customers to see so that
they don't abandon their cards as I
mentioned having a lot of reviews and
implementing UDC videos and implementing
things that pulls back the curtains and
shows that you're a real person and a
real brand are phenomenal ways to
decrease the amount of people that
ultimately abandon their C now the fifth
and final way to decrease your card
abandonment and ultimately improve your
add to cart to conversion ratio is by
improving your abandoned cart email and
SMS sequence now just full transparency
I am by no means an email or SMS guy but
by chatting with other highlevel
agencies and auditing some of the emails
for these bigger brands that we work
with cart and batment sequences are
crucial you can collect tens of
thousands even hundreds of thousands of
dollars depending on the size of your
brand by optimizing your C abandonment
flow I've seen brands that send emails
from the founder I've seen brands that
send discount codes I've seen brands
that send customer support messages I've
seen Brands send personalized text
messages by optimizing your abandoned
card flow and that post website
experience you will 100% be able to
decrease your aband in carts because
you're going to get more people to come
back and actually complete their
purchase one of my favorite ways that I
saw a brand do this was as soon as
someone abandon their cart or abandon
their checkout within 30 minutes they
actually sent a text message to the
person that said hey it's Tammy from the
best brand ever and I just wanted to
make sure you didn't have any issues
checking out just now by making it
personalized and like there's a real
person trying to help that is an
incredible way to recoup an abandoned
car even if they just tell you why they
abandon their card in the first place
that is such valuable information for
you to actually then go ahead and
improve your overall funnel so people
will actually convert the main reason
why people don't buy is typically
because they lack information have your
team and have your email an SMS flows be
a source of information the only other
reason why someone wouldn't purchase is
because don't think the price point is
fair for what they're going to get so as
you can imagine throwing in some kind of
offer on top of providing them that
information can also be a great way to
get them back on the store to finish
their purchase make it easier
financially provide more information to
potential customers and I can almost
guarantee they will come back and
purchase with you so with all that said
let's do a quick recap on the top five
things that I just mentioned number one
test offering free shipping on your
store number two improve the speed at
which you actually ship products to
customers number three communicate your
shipping prices and policies upfront to
potential customers number four improve
the overall Trust on your website so
people can be confident purchasing with
you and number five improve your SMS and
email abandoned cart flows to get people
back onto the store to finish their
purchases so that's it for today if you
enjoyed this video please leave a like
down below and consider sharing it with
someone who you think could get value
from this video as always if you're a
multiple 6 or seven figure Shopify brand
looking for the help of a growth focused
agency i' highly encourage to book a
call with me down below to get your
custom action plan from our team with
all that said thank you so much for
taking the time to watch this video I
hope you got a ton of value from it and
I will see you next
week